Shashkrid

The name of this abstract strategy game is a neologism, from Sanskrit SaS, "six" and krIDA, "game".
It is a reference to the original Indian Chaturanga game, from which the modern variants of chess derive.

The game is played on a diamond-shaped 13 * 9 hex grid with a 1 * 3 hole in its center.
The initial placement of the pieces is the same for every game, consisting of 13 pawns on the third line and 6 pawns on the second line on the right (from the player's perspective).
Each turn a player is given three action points.
These may be used to either move pieces or promote pawns to special pieces that can perform more complex moves.
1. moving a piece costs one action point
2. promoting a piece costs one action point
No piece may be moved more than once per turn.
A pawns that has not been moved in the current turn and is not being touched by an opponent's piece can be promoted to become a martyr, a guardian, a lance or a serpent.
A piece that was promoted must not be moved in the same turn.
An opponent's piece may be captured if the sum of the attack values of one's own pieces adjacent to it, including the attacking piece, is greater or equal to the defence value of the target.
The attacker takes the captured piece's place.
A game ends in one of four ways.
1. the maximum number of turns has been played (26)
2. a player has lost all their pieces
3. a player concedes
4. the players agree to call it a draw
In the first case, the outcome of the game is determined by the number of grid points in the zone of control of each player.
The zone of control in each lane extends from the original side of the player to the furthest piece owner by the player, forming a line which may not be interrupted by an enemy piece nor the hole in the center.
The player with the higher numbers ones.
If they are equal, the game is a draw.

Pieces:

Pawn
Attack: 1
Defence: 3
Movement: 2

Martyr
Role: offensive
Attack: 2
Defence: 3
Movement: 3 when moving forward, 1 otherwise

Guardian
Role: defensive
Attack: 1
Defence: 4
Movement: 2

Lance
Role: mobility
Attack: 1
Defence: 3
Movement: 4, can only move in a straight line

Serpent
Role: infiltration
Attack: 1
Defence: 3
Movement: exactly 1 or 3, passes through all units